What recipies to use for homework?

I want to pick 3 recipies from different culinary types so it's not boring
hmm.. something oven, something stovetop, something cold?
something breakfast, something lunch, something dinner?

GAH why am i bogging myself down in ambition? (because i thrive on gold stars damnit. it helps me feel less nervous about this winding up visible to the public eye. #hideyourshame)

Instructions for very basic, then optional one-up suggestions after (water boiled oats with cinamon, kappa maki)

so, stove breakfast oatmeal, cold sushi lunch, oven smothered burittos dinner?

A: steps -gather ingredients: 1/2cp oats, 1cp water/milk/juice, optional butter, optional spices, optional toppings. -gather tools: a pot, a spoon or other stirring device (preferably wooden or of a woodlike substance such as bamboo), measuring vessels, a bowl and spoon to serve. -add liquid to the pot and any spices you would like to use so that they can hydrate for better flavor. -heat to bubbling (if using milk, take care not to heat too high or too fast, or it will scorch and have a bad flavor and texture) -add the oats and any nuts or fruit that you want to serve heated (such as blueberries or almond slivers) -stir until thick and tender, adjusting heat to prevent agressive bubbles or burning. -now is a good time to add optional butter, salt, preferred sweetener, a small ammount of something creamy, or fresh toppings like bananna, delecate (strawberry) or acidic fruits (pinapple, orange slice, etc) or even edible flowers if you're feeling fancy.

add early step: any topping prep such as chopping nuts or sauteing spiced and diced apples.

initial blurb:
This versitile breakfast dish can be simple quick and inexpensive, lovingly lavish, or anywhere inbetween. It's "as you please!" Any dairy ingredients can be changed out for plant-based equivalents with no hassle.



C: steps -gather ingredients: cucumber (preferably little to no peel) and other vegitables sliced into long very thin "sticks" or even grated/shredded, possibly scrambled egg, possibly seafood sliced thin (safety first! only serve uncooked meat if you are confident it is both safe and clean!) (option: mix cooked fish or fish products with a soft creamy cheese to make a seafood spread) sheets of toasted seaweed for wrapping, short-grain rice, rice vinegar, sugar, (optional toppings like sesame seeds for... seeds..., mango slices for a more complex flavor, mayo mixed with an equal ammount of your prefered hot sauce for a little kick, or a more traditional trio of soy sauce, pickled ginger, and wasabi, if you can get it and if it's your thing) -gather tools: a way to cook the rice (dude get u a rice cooker WWII is over, ok ill include pot with a lid instructions though so you can get by with what you've got, I feel that life) a small pot and stiring object to make the rice seasoning, a moistenable spoon to spread the rice thin, a "mat" of some kind to help tighten the roll (plastic wrap will do, especially if you can pair that with a mat of bamboo sticks or at least a clean small towel) optional a very sharp knife for cutting the roll into slices (unless knives scare you in which case hey, uncut "hand rolled" is actually more traditional)

so, cook the rice seasoning: measure vinegar sugar and salt in a small pot, stir over medium heat until disolved
so, cook the rice: if it's your thing (i prefer very sticky rice) rinse it repeatedly until the water being poured out is pretty much clear,then add to either your rice cooker or your pot with an equal ammount of water plus an additional half-cup of water, put the lid on and either follow your machine's instructions or keep it simmering until the rice has absorbed all the water (steam will slow down considerably when you're about there) (DON'T open the lid till the rice is done, you'll turn it into a mushy crunchy disaster)
When both of these things are done and the rice is still hot: use a flexible non-stick spatula (like you would use for "scraping" a sauce out of a bowl, not like you would use to "turn" something frying in a pan) to very gently mix the seasoned vinegar with the rice. The goal is to get glossy unbroken grains. it also helps to have a helper fan-dry the rice while you "fold" (stir).
so, prep the veg, protien, fruit, toppings, etc: as described, you want to cut the veg into thin long sticks that will be easy to bundle up running through the whole roll. scrambled eggs, seasoned tofu, safe seafood can all be prepared as mashed with something creamy like a very soft cheese, cut into little cubes, or as thin slices about 1x1.5 to 2x3 inches to lay on top of a similarly sized "lump" of rice. (try this as well with softer showy ingredients like avocado and mango) if you want spicy mayo, now's a good time to mix that up (just equal quantities of whatever hotsauce you like be it sriracha or tobasco or whatever, and whatever mayo you like though may i reccomend kyupi-style cause you don't know what you're missing if you've never tried it)
so, after all that prep-work: for the simplest form, moisten your hands and squeeze a little fistful of rice until that sticky glossy coating does it's job and you have a tasty little two-bite lump, and gently press a slice of protien on top, then sprinkle/drizzle with any optional fancyness you please. slightly more skill is involved in the "maki" (the roll): lay down whatever roll-assist you have available, then a layer of parchment-paper or clingwrap or the like. next the UNCUT sheet of "nori" (seaweed). now, using a spoon kept moist enough to avoid sticking to the sticky rice, press a very thin layer of rice onto most of the nori. about a centemeter thick, and leave somewhere between an inch and a centemeter of nori at one edge with no rice at all.
Opposite the riceless end, lay your fillings out SPARINGLY. this sucker is gonna get overstuffed faster than you think. stay parallell to that empty end, and don't cover more than the farthest third of the rice from it.
HERE'S THE TRICKY PART: pick up the whole construction (mat and all) at that filling end and use it to flip the nori and rice over the filling. press, and keep rolling a little at a time, making sure no part of the mat or the stick-guard gets mixed into the food part. Instead, use the stick-guard to protect your hands while squeezing the roll tight to itself as you go.
When you get close to the part that's just nori: use a clean finger to wet the riceless part of the nori just a bit, so that it will stick to the nori you're about to roll on top of it. do that, holding your "tape" to the roll for a while so that the two stay together.
FINALLY, IF YOU DARE: use that very sharp knife, again with a bit of water each time, to slice your precious roll. let the sharpness of the blade do as much of the work for you as you can, resist too much pressing or sawing to keep it from mashing your roll apart. First in half, then clean your knife, then each part in half again, then clean and wet, then cut in half again, over and over until you have a masterpiece of pretty little disks. now, heckin appreciate the nearest sushi chef turning these suckers out like a boss for hungry customers all day every day, and enjoy.

(GAH why is sushi so much more complicated to explain than I expected?? There's a lot of tecnique that's easy to show in person and easy to overlook in words, I guess)